OSDOCS:3822- 4.11 Admin Console RNs (#47658)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/ocp-4-11-release-notes.adoc

[id="ocp-4-11-web-console"]
=== Web console

[id="ocp-4-11-dynamic-plug-in-updates"]
==== Dynamic Plug-in updates

> With this update, you can now enable and disable plug-ins in the *Administration* -> *Cluster Settings* page. You can also add different extension types to customize your plug-in. 

Reviewer: Suggest pointing out that you're talking about in the web console

> For more information, see xref:../web_console/dynamic-plug-ins.adoc#dunamic-plug-ins_web_console[Dynamic plug-ins].

Reviewer: dunamic in the anchor looks to be a typo - just checking that it's right (if it's a typo in the main docs, it is what it is :shrug: )

Author: Thats a wild typo. The link worked in a local build so I didn't catch! Thanks!

[id="ocp-4-11-dark-mode"]
==== Support for dark mode theme

> The {product-title} web console now supports the dark mode theme. On the *User Settings* page, select your preferred mode to view the web console in.

Reviewer: Is it "User Preferences" instead of "User Settings"? (I happened to have a cluster open and looked because I wanted to try it :slightly_smiling_face: )

Author: Yes, *User Preferences* whoops guess my notes were wrong. I really love the option for dark mode now!

[id="ocp-globally-installed-operators-display-operand-instances"]
==== Display operand instances for all managed namespaces on the *Operator Details* page

> When viewing the *Installed Operators* page set to `All projects` and then selecting an Operator that is available in the globally installed `All namespaces` to view the details of that Operator in installed namespace.

Reviewer 2: Long sentence, and I'm finding it difficult to understand the message. Consider breaking up the sentence into smaller sentences for clarity and accuracy.

Reviewer: +1 I can't follow this either

> 

Reviewer 3: @opayne1 
With this update, the default view for globally installed operators in the `All namespaces` and operand tabs of the *Installed Operator Details* page will show all instances across all namespaces, with a way to still see only the instances in the selected namespace in the project selector. When viewing the operand instances, a new radio switching control allows all operand instances from either all namespaces or only the current namespace to be seen. 
Excerpt: http://openshift.github.io/openshift-origin-design/designs/administrator/olm/global-operator-all-namespace-operands/
cc: @jhadvig

[id="ocp-4-11-conditional-updates"]
==== Conditional updates

> With this update, you can "include supported not recommended versions" for conditional updates to populate the list. If you select "supported, but not recommended" an alert will appear and display the potential issues. You can also view the "supported, but not recommended" versions" from the *Administration* -> *Cluster Settings* page.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
With this update, if conditional updates are available, you can enable “Include supported but not recommended versions” in the “Select new version” dropdown of the “Update cluster” modal in order to populate the dropdown list with conditional updates. If a “Supported but not recommended” version is selected, an alert will appear below the dropdown displaying potential issues with the version.
```

> With this update, you can "include supported not recommended versions" for conditional updates to populate the list. If you select "supported, but not recommended" an alert will appear and display the potential issues. You can also view the "supported, but not recommended" versions" from the *Administration* -> *Cluster Settings* page.

Reviewer 2: Are these conditional upgrade paths? If so, consider specifying that in the text in all the places where you mentioned the conditions. For example, ' you can specify the "include supported not recommended versions" conditional upgrade path when populating the recommended updates.' or something similar.

> With this update, you can "include supported not recommended versions" for conditional updates to populate the list. If you select "supported, but not recommended" an alert will appear and display the potential issues. You can also view the "supported, but not recommended" versions" from the *Administration* -> *Cluster Settings* page.

Reviewer 2: Is there an extra colon? Please check the syntax.

[id="ocp-4-11-pod-disruption-budgets"]
==== Pod disruption budgets (PDBs)

> This update adds support for pod disruption budgets (PDBs) to the {product-title} web console. From *Workloads* -> *PodDisruptionBudget* you can create PDBs for pod resources. You can select `poddisruptionbudget` and change the availability requirement.

Reviewer 3: @opayne1 I think it should be : *PodDisruptionBudgets*  as displayed on the web console UI side nav
`poddisruptionbudget`  should be `PodDisruptionBudget` 
cc: @jhadvig

> This update adds support for pod disruption budgets (PDBs) to the {product-title} web console. From *Workloads* -> *PodDisruptionBudget* you can create PDBs for pod resources. You can select `poddisruptionbudget` and change the availability requirement.

Reviewer 2: Add a comma after 'PodDisruptionBudget'

> This update adds support for pod disruption budgets (PDBs) to the {product-title} web console. From *Workloads* -> *PodDisruptionBudget* you can create PDBs for pod resources. You can select `poddisruptionbudget` and change the availability requirement.

Reviewer 2: Consider revising it to 'provides support for PDBs' or simply 'supports PDBs'. Also consider adding a hyperlink to the section where we describe PDBs in detail. For example, https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.10/nodes/pods/nodes-pods-priority.html#priority-preemption-other_nodes-pods-priority

> This update adds support for pod disruption budgets (PDBs) to the {product-title} web console. From *Workloads* -> *PodDisruptionBudget* you can create PDBs for pod resources. You can select `poddisruptionbudget` and change the availability requirement.

Reviewer: I think you have some good suggestions already on this sentence, but I'll just toss in that the last sentence isn't very clear to me what you mean.

> 

Reviewer 3: @opayne1 I think we should include this:
Alternatively, Pod disruption budgets can be created from pod controller  resources list and detail pages. For example, from Deployments -> click the action menu -> Add PodDisruptionBudget

[id="ocp-4-11-web-console"]
=== Web console

[id="ocp-4-11-dynamic-plug-in-updates"]
==== Dynamic plug-in updates

With this update, you can now enable and disable plug-ins in the *Administration* -> *Cluster Settings* page of the web console. You can also add different extension types to customize your plug-in.

For more information, see xref:../web_console/dynamic-plug-ins.adoc#dynamic-plug-ins_web_console[Dynamic plug-ins].

[id="ocp-4-11-dark-mode"]
==== Support for dark mode theme

The {product-title} web console now supports the dark mode theme. On the *User Preferences* page, select your preferred mode to view the web console in.

[id="ocp-globally-installed-operators-display-operand-instances"]
==== Display operand instances for all managed namespaces on the *Installed Operator* page

> With this update, the default view for globally installed Operators in the *All namespaces* and *Operand* tabs of the *Installed Operator* -> *Details* page will show all Operators across all namespaces. You are still able to view only the instances in the selected namespace within the project selector. When viewing the operand instances, a new radio switching control allows all operand instances from either all namespaces or only the current namespace to be seen.

Author: @XiyunZhao PTAL. Thank you!

Reviewer 5: `the default view for globally installed Operators in the *All namespaces* and *Operand* tabs of the *Installed Operator* -> *Details* page will show all Operators across all namespaces`
@opayne1 The operator details page has not been updated, it is recommended to remove this sentence to avoid misleading. Other parts, it;s ok for me

Author: @XiyunZhao I have updated to reflect your comments. Thank you!

[id="ocp-4-11-conditional-updates"]
==== Conditional updates

With this update, if conditional updates are available, you can enable `Include supported but not recommended versions` in the `Select new version` dropdown of the *Update cluster* modal to populate the dropdown list with conditional updates. If a `Supported but not recommended` version is selected, an alert will appear below the dropdown displaying potential issues with the version.

[id="ocp-4-11-pod-disruption-budgets"]
==== Pod disruption budgets (PDBs)

> This update provides support for pod disruption budgets (PDBs) to the {product-title} web console. From *Workloads* -> *PodDisruptionBudget*, you can create PDBs for pod resources. Alternatively, pod disruption budgets can be created from pod controller resources list and detail pages. For example, from *Deployments* -> click `Add PodDisruptionBudget`. You can also select `PodDisruptionBudget` and change the availability requirement to `MinAvailable` or `maxAvailable` to specify the pods running.

Reviewer 6: nav menu is in plural forms `PodDisruptionBudgets`  so it should be `Workloads -> PodDisruptionBudgets`

Reviewer 6: @opayne1  what does this sentence `You can also select `PodDisruptionBudget` and change the availability` mean?  where did use select `PodDisruptionBudget`?

Author: @yapei I have updated this to reflect your comments. Thank you!

Reviewer 6: @opayne1  thanks for your updates, so minor comments based on latest changes
```
For example, from Workloads → Deployments click Add PodDisruptionBudget. You can also change the availability requirements for the maximum number of unavailable Pods and the maximum number of surge Pods during the rolling deployment.
```
`the maximum number of surge Pods` looks quite different from `minAvailable`

Author: @yapei Oh I see! I had a cluster up and went into *Deployments* based on the sentence before. I see now that if you are in *PodDisruptionBudgets* and you click `PodDisruptionBudget` you can select a `maxUnavailable` and `minAvailable` from the availability requirement list and set the value of pods running. I think I will move this sentence up to avoid confusion.

Author: Updated!

[id="ocp-4-11-web-console"]
=== Web console

[id="ocp-4-11-dynamic-plug-in-updates"]
==== Dynamic plug-in updates

> With this update, you can now enable and disable plug-ins in the *Configuration* tab of the *Administration* -> *Cluster Settings* page of the web console. You can also add different extension types to customize your plug-in.

Author: Relates to #47507

Reviewer 6: enable and disable dynamic plugins in Configuration tab has been introduced since 4.10, so do we want to highlight again in 4.11?

Author: @yapei should we remove this release note then since the extensions were also available in 4.10? I still plan to update the main docs.

Author: ^ I spoke with @jhadvig and decided to add a note about `console.openshift.io/default-i18next-namespace` that was introduced in 4.11. @yapei could I have an ack for this note? Thank you!

* With this update, in the *Add+* page of the developer perspective, a new menu added to share project and Helm Chart repositories that allows to add or remove users to the project.

[id="ocp-4-11-dynamic-plug-in-updates"]
==== Dynamic plug-in updates

> With this update, you can use the new `console.openshift.io/default-i18next-namespace` annotation to determine if the `ConsolePlugin` contains localization resources. If the annotation is set to `"true"`, the localization resources from the i18n namespace named after the dynamic plug-in, are loaded. If the annotation is set to any other value or is missing on the `ConsolePlugin` resource, localization resources are not loaded.

Reviewer 6: the annotation is `console.openshift.io/use-i18n`

Author: Updated! Thanks for clarifying!

For more information, see xref:../web_console/dynamic-plug-ins.adoc#dynamic-plug-ins_web_console[Dynamic plug-ins].

[id="ocp-4-11-dark-mode"]
==== Support for dark mode theme

The {product-title} web console now supports the dark mode theme. On the *User Preferences* page, select your preferred theme to view the web console in.

[id="ocp-globally-installed-operators-display-operand-instances"]
==== Display operand instances for all managed namespaces on the *Installed Operator* page

With this update, the *Operator* -> *Installed Operator* page will show all Operators across all namespaces. You are still able to view only the instances in the selected namespace within the project selector. When viewing the operand instances, a new switching control allows all operand instances from either all namespaces or only the current namespace to be seen.

[id="ocp-4-11-conditional-updates"]
==== Conditional updates

> With this update, if conditional updates are available, you can enable `Include supported but not recommended versions` in the `Select new version` dropdown of the *Update cluster* modal to populate the dropdown list with conditional updates. If a `Supported but not recommended` version is selected, an alert will appear below the dropdown displaying potential issues with the version.

Reviewer 7: ISG nit
```suggestion
With this update, if conditional updates are available, you can enable `Include supported but not recommended versions` in the `Select new version` dropdown of the *Update cluster* modal to populate the dropdown list with conditional updates. If a `Supported but not recommended` version is selected, an alert will appear below the dropdown menu displaying potential issues with the version.
```

[id="ocp-4-11-pod-disruption-budgets"]
==== Pod disruption budgets (PDBs)

> This update provides support for pod disruption budgets (PDBs) to the {product-title} web console. From *Workloads* -> *PodDisruptionBudgets*, you can create PDBs for pod resources. You can select `maxUnavailable` and `minAvailable` from the availability requirement list and set the value of pods running. Alternatively, pod disruption budgets can be created from `pod controller resources` list and *Detail* pages. For example, from *Workloads* -> *Deployments* click `Add PodDisruptionBudget`.

Reviewer 7: should it be "requirements list"?

Author: Its in the UI as `availability requirement`
